README.md, before:

# is

[![Go](https://github.com/hedzr/is/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hedzr/is/actions/workflows/go.yml)
![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/hedzr/is)
[![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/hedzr/is.svg?label=release)](https://github.com/hedzr/is/releases)
[![go.dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-dev-green)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is)
[![deps.dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/deps-dev-green)](https://deps.dev/go/github.com%2Fhedzr%2Fis)

`is` provides numerous detectors for checking the states of environment (build, executive, ...).

## Features

- `is.State(which) bool`: the universal detector entry - via `RegisterStateGetter(state string, getter func() bool)` to add your own ones. *Since v0.5.11*
- `is.Env()` holds a global struct for CLI app basic states, such as: verbose/quiet/debug/trace....
  - `DebugMode`/`DebugLevel`, `TraceMode`/`TraceLevel`, `ColorMode`, ...
- `is.InDebugging() bool`, `is.InTesting() bool`, and `is.InTracing() bool`, ....
- `is.DebugBuild() bool`.
- `is.K8sBuild() bool`, `is.DockerBuild() bool`, ....
- `is.ColoredTty() bool`, ....
- `is.Color()` to get an indexer for the functions in our term/color subpackage, ...
- Terminal Colorizer, Detector, unescape tools.
- stringtool: `RandomStringPure`, case-converters ...
- basics: closable, closer, signals.
  - easier `Press any key to exit...` prompt: `is.Signals().Catch()`
- exec: Run, RunWithOutput, Sudo, ...
- go1.23.7+ required since v0.7.0
- ~~go 1.22.7+ required~~

To using environment detecting utilities better and smoother, some terminal (and stringtool, basics) tools are bundled together.

Since v0.6.0, `is.InDebugging()` checks if the running process' parent is `dlv`.
The old `DebugMode` and `DebugBuild` are still work:

- `InDebugging`: checks this process is being debugged by `dlv`.
- `DebugBuild`: `-tags=delve` is set at building.
- `DebugMode`: `--debug` is specified at command line.

Since v0.8.27, `basics.Signals().Catcher().WaitFor()` wants `ctx` param passed in.

## Usages

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log/slog"
    "os"
    "sync"
    "time"

    "github.com/hedzr/is"
    "github.com/hedzr/is/basics"
    "github.com/hedzr/is/term/color"
)

func main() {
    defer basics.Close()

    is.RegisterStateGetter("custom", func() bool { return is.InVscodeTerminal() })

    println(is.InTesting())
    println(is.State("in-testing"))
    println(is.State("custom")) // detects a state with custom detector
    println(is.Env().GetDebugLevel())
    if is.InDebugMode() {
        slog.SetDefault(slog.New(slog.NewTextHandler(os.Stdout, &slog.HandlerOptions{AddSource: true, Level: slog.LevelDebug})))
    }

    // or:
    //    is.Color().GetColorTranslator().Translate("<b>bold</b>")
    fmt.Printf("%v", color.GetCPT().Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
        <b>bold / strong / em</b>
        <i>italic / cite</i>
        <u>underline</u>
        <mark>inverse mark</mark>
        <del>strike / del </del>
        <font color="green">green text</font>
`, color.FgDefault))

    var cancelled int32
    ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
    defer cancel()

    catcher := is.Signals().Catch()
    catcher.
        WithPrompt("Press CTRL-C to quit...").
        // WithOnLoopFunc(dbStarter, cacheStarter, mqStarter).
        WithPeripherals(&dbMgr{}).
        WithOnSignalCaught(func(ctx context.Context, sig os.Signal, wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
            println()
            slog.Info("signal caught", "sig", sig)
            cancel() // cancel user's loop, see Wait(...)
        }).
        WaitFor(ctx, func(ctx context.Context, closer func()) {
            slog.Debug("entering looper's loop...")
            defer close() // notify catcher we want to shutdown
            // to terminate this app after a while automatically:
            time.Sleep(10 * time.Second)

            if atomic.CompareAndSwapInt32(&cancelled, 0, 1) {
                is.PressAnyKeyToContinue(os.Stdin)
            }
        })
}

type dbMgr struct{}

func (*dbMgr) Close()                           {}         // before app terminatine
func (*dbMgr) Open(context.Context) (err error) { return } // ran before catcher.WaitFor()
```

Result is similar with:

![image-20240113071930661](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/hzimg/blog-pics@master/uPic/image-20240113071930661.png)

NOTE that `is.Signals().Catch()` will produce a prompt and enter a infinite loop to wait for user's keystroke pressed.

### Lists

```go
is.Terminal(os.Stdout)
```

The partials:

- is.InDebugging / InDebugMode
- is.DebuggerAttached (relyes on delve tag)
- is.InTracing / InTestingT
- is.InTesting / InTestingT
- is.InDevelopingTime
- is.InVscodeTerminal
- is.InK8s
- is.InIstio
- is.InDocker / InDockerEnvSimple
- Build
  - is.K8sBuild
  - is.IstioBuild
  - is.DockerBuild
  - is.VerboseBuild
  - is.DebugBuild
  - buildtags.IsBuildTagExists

- States / Env
  - VerboseModeEnabled
  - GetVerboseLevel / SetVerboseMode / SetVerboseLevel
  - QuietModeEnabled
  - GetQuietLevel / SetQuietMode / SetQuietLevel
  - NoColorMode
  - GetNoColorLevel / SetNoColorMode / SetNoColorLevel
  - DebugMode
  - GetDebugLevel / SetDebugMode / SetDebugLevel
  - Tracing
  - TraceMode
  - GetTraceLevel / SetTraceMode / SetTraceLevel

- Terminal / Tty
  - is.Terminal(file)
  - is.TerminalFd(fd)
  - is.Tty(wr)
  - is.ColoredTty(wr)
  - is.AnsiEscaped(s) (~~IsTtyEscaped(s)~~)
  - StripEscapes(s)
  - ReadPassword
  - GetTtySize
  - is.GetTtySizeByName(filename) (cols,rows,err)
  - is.GetTtySizeByFile(file) (cols,rows,err)
  - is.GetTtySizeByFd(fd) (cols,rows,err)
  - StartupByDoubleClick() bool

- [Special] Terminal / Color
  - escaping tools: GetCPT()/GetCPTC()/GetCPTNC()
  - Highlight, Dimf, Text, Dim, ToDim, ToHighlight, ToColor, ...

- Basics
  - closers
    - Peripheral, Closable, Closer
    - RegisterClosable
    - RegisterClosers
    - RegisterCloseFns
  - `is.Signals().Catcher()`
  - is.FileExists(filepath)
  - is.ToBool, StringToBool

### Build Tags

Some functions want special buildtags presented. These are including:

- `verbose`: See VerboseBuild, ...
- `delve`: See DebugBuild, ...
- `k8s`: See K8sBuild
- `istio`: See IstioBuild
- `docker`: See DockerBuild
- ...
- `buildtags.IsBuildTagExists(tag) bool`

### Colorizes

The test codes:

```go
import "github.com/hedzr/is/term/color"

func TestGetCPT(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.GetCPT().Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
    <b>bold / strong / em</b>
    <i>italic / cite</i>
    <u>underline</u>
    <mark>inverse mark</mark>
    <del>strike / del </del>
    <font color="green">green text</font>
    `, color.FgDefault))
}
```

Result:

![image-20231107100150520](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/hzimg/blog-pics@master/uPic/image-20231107100150520.png)

And more:

```go
func TestStripLeftTabs(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.StripLeftTabs(`
    
        <code>code</code>
    NC Cool
     But it's tight.
      Hold On!
    Hurry Up.
    `))
}

func TestStripHTMLTags(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.StripHTMLTags(`
    
        <code>code</code>
    NC Cool
     But it's tight.
      Hold On!
    Hurry Up.
    `))
}
```

### `Cursor`

Since v0.8+, A new `color.Cursor` object can be initialized by `color.New()`, which support format the colorful text with streaming calls, for console/tty.

> See [the online docs](https://docs.hedzr.com/docs/is/) for more usages.

<details title="Expand"><caption>expand</caption><detail>

The examples are:

```go

func ExampleNew() {
 // start a color text builder
 var c = color.New()

 // specially for running on remote ci server
 if states.Env().IsNoColorMode() {
  states.Env().SetNoColorMode(true)
 }

 // paint and get the result (with ansi-color-seq ready)
 var result = c.Println().
  Color16(color.FgRed).
  Printf("hello, %s.", "world").Println().
  SavePos().
  Println("x").
  Color16(color.FgGreen).Printf("hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(160).Printf("[160] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(161).Printf("[161] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(162).Printf("[162] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(163).Printf("[163] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(164).Printf("[164] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(165).Printf("[165] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Up(3).Echo(" ERASED ").
  RGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.", "world").
  Println().
  RestorePos().
  Println("z").
  Down(8).
  Println("DONE").
  Build()

  // and render the result
 fmt.Println(result)

 // For most of ttys, the output looks like:
 //
 // [31mhello, world.[0m
 // [sx
 // [32mhello, world.
 // [38;5;160m[160] hello, world.
 // [38;5;161m[161] hello, world.
 // [38;5;162m[162] hello, world.
 // [38;5;163m[163] hello, world.
 // [38;5;164m[164] hello, world.
 // [38;5;165m[165] hello, world.
 // [0m[3A ERASED [38;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
 // [uz
 // [8BDONE
}

func ExampleCursor_Color16() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Color16(color.FgRed).
  Printf("hello, %s.", "world").Println().Build())
 // Output: [31mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Color() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Color(color.FgRed, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [31mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Bg() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Bg(color.BgRed, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [41mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Effect() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Effect(color.BgDim, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [2mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Color256() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c.
  Color256(163).Printf("[163] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(164).Printf("[164] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(165).Printf("[165] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Build())
 // Output:
 // [38;5;163m[163] hello, world.
 // [38;5;164m[164] hello, world.
 // [38;5;165m[165] hello, world.
}

func ExampleCursor_RGB() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c.
  RGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  BgRGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Build())
 // Output:
 // [38;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
 // [48;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
}

func ExampleCursor_EDim() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   EDim("[DIM] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [2m[DIM] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Black() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   Black("[BLACK] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [30m[BLACK] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_BgBlack() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   BgBlack("[BGBLACK] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [40m[BGBLACK] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Translate() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
  <b>bold / strong / em</b>
  <i>italic / cite</i>
  <u>underline</u>
  <mark>inverse mark</mark>
  <del>strike / del </del>
  <font color="green">green text</font>
  `).String())
 // Output:
 // [51;1mcode[0m[39m | [51;1mCTRL[0m[39m
 //  [1mbold / strong / em[0m[39m
 //  [3mitalic / cite[0m[39m
 //  [4munderline[0m[39m
 //  [7minverse mark[0m[39m
 //  [9mstrike / del [0m[39m
 //  [32mgreen text[0m[39m
}

func ExampleCursor_StripLeftTabsColorful() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   StripLeftTabsColorful(`
  <code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
  <b>bold / strong / em</b>
  <i>italic / cite</i>
  <u>underline</u>
  <mark>inverse mark</mark>
  <del>strike / del </del>
  <font color="green">green text</font>
  `).String())
 // Output:
 // [51;1mcode[0m[0m | [51;1mCTRL[0m[0m
 // [1mbold / strong / em[0m[0m
 // [3mitalic / cite[0m[0m
 // [4munderline[0m[0m
 // [7minverse mark[0m[0m
 // [9mstrike / del [0m[0m
 // [32mgreen text[0m[0m
}
```

</detail></details>

## Integrated with `cmdr`

### `Closers`

The `Closers()` collects all closable objects and allow shutting down them at once.

```go
package main

import (
    "os"

    "github.com/hedzr/is/basics"
)

type redisHub struct{}

func (s *redisHub) Close() {
    // close the connections to redis servers
    println("redis connections closed")
}

func main() {
    defer basics.Close()

    tmpFile, _ := os.CreateTemp(os.TempDir(), "1*.log")
    basics.RegisterClosers(tmpFile)

    basics.RegisterCloseFn(func() {
        // do some shutdown operations here
        println("close single functor")
    })

    basics.RegisterPeripheral(&redisHub{})
}
```

### `Signals`

`Signals()` could catch OS signals and entering a infinite loop.

For example, a tcp server could be:

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "os"
    "sync"

    "github.com/hedzr/go-socketlib/net"
    "github.com/hedzr/is"
    logz "github.com/hedzr/logg/slog"
)

func main() {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
    defer cancel()

    logger := logz.New("new-dns")
    server := net.NewServer(":7099",
        net.WithServerOnListening(func(ss net.Server, l stdnet.Listener) {
            go runClient(ctx, ss, l)
        }),
        net.WithServerLogger(logger.WithSkip(1)),
    )
    defer server.Close()

    // make a catcher so that it can catch ths signals,
    catcher := is.Signals().Catch()
    catcher.
        // WithVerboseFn(func(msg string, args ...any) {
        //     logz.WithSkip(2).Verbose(fmt.Sprintf("[verbose] %s", fmt.Sprintf(msg, args...)))
        // }).
        WithOnSignalCaught(func(ctx context.Context, sig os.Signal, wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
            println()
            logz.Debug("signal caught", "sig", sig)
            if err := server.Shutdown(); err != nil {
                logz.Error("server shutdown error", "err", err)
            }
            cancel()
        }).
        WaitFor(ctx, func(ctx context.Context, closer func()) {
            logz.Debug("entering looper's loop...")

            server.WithOnShutdown(func(err error, ss net.Server) { closer() })
            err := server.ListenAndServe(ctx, nil)
            if err != nil {
                logz.Fatal("server serve failed", "err", err)
            } else {
                closer()
            }
        })
}

func runClient(ctx context.Context, ss net.Server, l stdnet.Listener) {
    c := net.NewClient()

    if err := c.Dial("tcp", ":7099"); err != nil {
        logz.Fatal("connecting to server failed", "err", err, "server-endpoint", ":7099")
    }
    logz.Info("[client] connected", "server.addr", c.RemoteAddr())
    c.RunDemo(ctx)
}
```

> some packages has stayed in progress so the above codes is just a skeleton (from go-socketlib/_examples/new-loop/main.go/v1).

## Contributions

Kindly welcome, please issue me first for keeping this repo smaller.

## License

under Apache 2.0

Commit message:

udpate README: add new section for color subpkg

README.md, after:

# is

[![Go](https://github.com/hedzr/is/actions/workflows/go.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hedzr/is/actions/workflows/go.yml)
![GitHub go.mod Go version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/hedzr/is)
[![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/hedzr/is.svg?label=release)](https://github.com/hedzr/is/releases)
[![go.dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/go-dev-green)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is)
[![deps.dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/deps-dev-green)](https://deps.dev/go/github.com%2Fhedzr%2Fis)

`is` provides numerous detectors for checking the states of environment (build, executive, ...).

## Features

- `is.State(which) bool`: the universal detector entry - via `RegisterStateGetter(state string, getter func() bool)` to add your own ones. *Since v0.5.11*
- `is.Env()` holds a global struct for CLI app basic states, such as: verbose/quiet/debug/trace....
  - `DebugMode`/`DebugLevel`, `TraceMode`/`TraceLevel`, `ColorMode`, ...
- `is.InDebugging() bool`, `is.InTesting() bool`, and `is.InTracing() bool`, ....
- `is.DebugBuild() bool`.
- `is.K8sBuild() bool`, `is.DockerBuild() bool`, ....
- `is.ColoredTty() bool`, ....
- `is.Color()` to get an indexer for the functions in our term/color subpackage, ...
- Terminal Colorizer, Detector, unescape tools.
- stringtool: `RandomStringPure`, case-converters ...
- basics: closable, closer, signals.
  - easier `Press any key to exit...` prompt: `is.Signals().Catch()`
- exec: Run, RunWithOutput, Sudo, ...
- go1.23.7+ required since v0.7.0
- ~~go 1.22.7+ required~~

To using environment detecting utilities better and smoother, some terminal (and stringtool, basics) tools are bundled together.

Since v0.6.0, `is.InDebugging()` checks if the running process' parent is `dlv`.
The old `DebugMode` and `DebugBuild` are still work:

- `InDebugging`: checks this process is being debugged by `dlv`.
- `DebugBuild`: `-tags=delve` is set at building.
- `DebugMode`: `--debug` is specified at command line.

Since v0.8.27, `basics.Signals().Catcher().WaitFor()` wants `ctx` param passed in.

## Usages

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "fmt"
    "log/slog"
    "os"
    "sync"
    "time"

    "github.com/hedzr/is"
    "github.com/hedzr/is/basics"
    "github.com/hedzr/is/term/color"
)

func main() {
    // defer basics.Close() // uncomment if not using Catcher.WaitFor and/or cmdr.v2

    is.RegisterStateGetter("custom", func() bool { return is.InVscodeTerminal() })

    println(is.InTesting())
    println(is.State("in-testing"))
    println(is.State("custom")) // detects a state with custom detector
    println(is.Env().GetDebugLevel())
    if is.InDebugMode() {
        slog.SetDefault(slog.New(slog.NewTextHandler(os.Stdout, &slog.HandlerOptions{AddSource: true, Level: slog.LevelDebug})))
    }

    // or:
    //    is.Color().GetColorTranslator().Translate("<b>bold</b>")
    fmt.Printf("%v", color.GetCPT().Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
        <b>bold / strong / em</b>
        <i>italic / cite</i>
        <u>underline</u>
        <mark>inverse mark</mark>
        <del>strike / del </del>
        <font color="green">green text</font>
`, color.FgDefault))

    var cancelled int32
    ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
    defer cancel()

    catcher := is.Signals().Catch()
    catcher.
        WithPrompt("Press CTRL-C to quit...").
        // WithOnLoopFunc(dbStarter, cacheStarter, mqStarter).
        WithPeripherals(&dbMgr{}).
        WithOnSignalCaught(func(ctx context.Context, sig os.Signal, wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
            println()
            slog.Info("signal caught", "sig", sig)
            cancel() // cancel user's loop, see Wait(...)
        }).
        WaitFor(ctx, func(ctx context.Context, closer func()) {
            slog.Debug("entering looper's loop...")
            defer close() // notify catcher we want to shutdown
            // to terminate this app after a while automatically:
            time.Sleep(10 * time.Second)

            if atomic.CompareAndSwapInt32(&cancelled, 0, 1) {
                is.PressAnyKeyToContinue(os.Stdin)
            }
        })
}

type dbMgr struct{}

func (*dbMgr) Close()                           {}         // before app terminatine
func (*dbMgr) Open(context.Context) (err error) { return } // ran before catcher.WaitFor()
```

Result is similar with:

![image-20240113071930661](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/hzimg/blog-pics@master/uPic/image-20240113071930661.png)

NOTE that `is.Signals().Catch()` will produce a prompt and enter a infinite loop to wait for user's keystroke pressed.

### Lists

```go
is.Terminal(os.Stdout)
```

The partials:

- is.InDebugging / InDebugMode
- is.DebuggerAttached (relyes on delve tag)
- is.InTracing / InTestingT
- is.InTesting / InTestingT
- is.InDevelopingTime
- is.InVscodeTerminal
- is.InK8s
- is.InIstio
- is.InDocker / InDockerEnvSimple
- Build
  - is.K8sBuild
  - is.IstioBuild
  - is.DockerBuild
  - is.VerboseBuild
  - is.DebugBuild
  - buildtags.IsBuildTagExists

- States / Env
  - VerboseModeEnabled
  - GetVerboseLevel / SetVerboseMode / SetVerboseLevel
  - QuietModeEnabled
  - GetQuietLevel / SetQuietMode / SetQuietLevel
  - NoColorMode
  - GetNoColorLevel / SetNoColorMode / SetNoColorLevel
  - DebugMode
  - GetDebugLevel / SetDebugMode / SetDebugLevel
  - Tracing
  - TraceMode
  - GetTraceLevel / SetTraceMode / SetTraceLevel

- Terminal / Tty
  - is.Terminal(file)
  - is.TerminalFd(fd)
  - is.Tty(wr)
  - is.ColoredTty(wr)
  - is.AnsiEscaped(s) (~~IsTtyEscaped(s)~~)
  - StripEscapes(s)
  - ReadPassword
  - GetTtySize
  - is.GetTtySizeByName(filename) (cols,rows,err)
  - is.GetTtySizeByFile(file) (cols,rows,err)
  - is.GetTtySizeByFd(fd) (cols,rows,err)
  - StartupByDoubleClick() bool

- [Special] Terminal / Color
  - escaping tools: GetCPT()/GetCPTC()/GetCPTNC()
  - Highlight, Dimf, Text, Dim, ToDim, ToHighlight, ToColor, ...

- Basics
  - closers
    - Peripheral, Closable, Closer
    - RegisterClosable
    - RegisterClosers
    - RegisterCloseFns
  - `is.Signals().Catcher()`
  - is.FileExists(filepath)
  - is.ToBool, StringToBool

### Build Tags

Some functions want special buildtags presented. These are including:

- `verbose`: See VerboseBuild, ...
- `delve`: See DebugBuild, ...
- `k8s`: See K8sBuild
- `istio`: See IstioBuild
- `docker`: See DockerBuild
- ...
- `buildtags.IsBuildTagExists(tag) bool`

### Colorizes

The test codes:

```go
import "github.com/hedzr/is/term/color"

func TestGetCPT(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.GetCPT().Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
    <b>bold / strong / em</b>
    <i>italic / cite</i>
    <u>underline</u>
    <mark>inverse mark</mark>
    <del>strike / del </del>
    <font color="green">green text</font>
    `, color.FgDefault))
}
```

Result:

![image-20231107100150520](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/hzimg/blog-pics@master/uPic/image-20231107100150520.png)

And more:

```go
func TestStripLeftTabs(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.StripLeftTabs(`
    
        <code>code</code>
    NC Cool
     But it's tight.
      Hold On!
    Hurry Up.
    `))
}

func TestStripHTMLTags(t *testing.T) {
t.Logf("%v", color.StripHTMLTags(`
    
        <code>code</code>
    NC Cool
     But it's tight.
      Hold On!
    Hurry Up.
    `))
}
```

### `Cursor`

Since v0.8+, A new `color.Cursor` object can be initialized by `color.New()`, which support format the colorful text with streaming calls, for console/tty.

> See [the online docs](https://docs.hedzr.com/docs/is/) for more usages.

<details title="Expand"><caption>expand</caption><detail>

The examples are:

```go

func ExampleNew() {
 // start a color text builder
 var c = color.New()

 // specially for running on remote ci server
 if states.Env().IsNoColorMode() {
  states.Env().SetNoColorMode(true)
 }

 // paint and get the result (with ansi-color-seq ready)
 var result = c.Println().
  Color16(color.FgRed).
  Printf("hello, %s.", "world").Println().
  SavePos().
  Println("x").
  Color16(color.FgGreen).Printf("hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(160).Printf("[160] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(161).Printf("[161] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(162).Printf("[162] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(163).Printf("[163] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(164).Printf("[164] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(165).Printf("[165] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Up(3).Echo(" ERASED ").
  RGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.", "world").
  Println().
  RestorePos().
  Println("z").
  Down(8).
  Println("DONE").
  Build()

  // and render the result
 fmt.Println(result)

 // For most of ttys, the output looks like:
 //
 // [31mhello, world.[0m
 // [sx
 // [32mhello, world.
 // [38;5;160m[160] hello, world.
 // [38;5;161m[161] hello, world.
 // [38;5;162m[162] hello, world.
 // [38;5;163m[163] hello, world.
 // [38;5;164m[164] hello, world.
 // [38;5;165m[165] hello, world.
 // [0m[3A ERASED [38;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
 // [uz
 // [8BDONE
}

func ExampleCursor_Color16() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Color16(color.FgRed).
  Printf("hello, %s.", "world").Println().Build())
 // Output: [31mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Color() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Color(color.FgRed, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [31mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Bg() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Bg(color.BgRed, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [41mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Effect() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Println(c.Effect(color.BgDim, "hello, %s.", "world").Build())
 // Output: [2mhello, world.[0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Color256() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c.
  Color256(163).Printf("[163] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(164).Printf("[164] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Color256(165).Printf("[165] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Build())
 // Output:
 // [38;5;163m[163] hello, world.
 // [38;5;164m[164] hello, world.
 // [38;5;165m[165] hello, world.
}

func ExampleCursor_RGB() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c.
  RGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  BgRGB(211, 211, 33).Printf("[16m] hello, %s.\n", "world").
  Build())
 // Output:
 // [38;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
 // [48;2;211;211;33m[16m] hello, world.
}

func ExampleCursor_EDim() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   EDim("[DIM] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [2m[DIM] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Black() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   Black("[BLACK] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [30m[BLACK] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_BgBlack() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   BgBlack("[BGBLACK] hello, %s.\n", "world").String())
 // Output:
 // [40m[BGBLACK] hello, world.
 // [0m
}

func ExampleCursor_Translate() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   Translate(`<code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
  <b>bold / strong / em</b>
  <i>italic / cite</i>
  <u>underline</u>
  <mark>inverse mark</mark>
  <del>strike / del </del>
  <font color="green">green text</font>
  `).String())
 // Output:
 // [51;1mcode[0m[39m | [51;1mCTRL[0m[39m
 //  [1mbold / strong / em[0m[39m
 //  [3mitalic / cite[0m[39m
 //  [4munderline[0m[39m
 //  [7minverse mark[0m[39m
 //  [9mstrike / del [0m[39m
 //  [32mgreen text[0m[39m
}

func ExampleCursor_StripLeftTabsColorful() {
 // another colorful builfer
 var c = color.New()
 fmt.Print(c. // Color16(color.FgRed).
   StripLeftTabsColorful(`
  <code>code</code> | <kbd>CTRL</kbd>
  <b>bold / strong / em</b>
  <i>italic / cite</i>
  <u>underline</u>
  <mark>inverse mark</mark>
  <del>strike / del </del>
  <font color="green">green text</font>
  `).String())
 // Output:
 // [51;1mcode[0m[0m | [51;1mCTRL[0m[0m
 // [1mbold / strong / em[0m[0m
 // [3mitalic / cite[0m[0m
 // [4munderline[0m[0m
 // [7minverse mark[0m[0m
 // [9mstrike / del [0m[0m
 // [32mgreen text[0m[0m
}
```

</detail></details>

### `color` subpackage

Package color provides a wrapped standard output device like printf but with colored enhancements.

The main types are [Cursor](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Cursor) and [Translator](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Translator).

[Cursor](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Cursor) allows formatting colorful text and moving cursor to another coordinate.

[New](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#New) will return a [Cursor](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Cursor) object.

[RowsBlock](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#RowsBlock) is another cursor controller, which can treat the current line and following lines as a block and updating these lines repeatedly. This feature will help the progressbar writers or the continuous lines updater.

[Translator](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Translator) is a text and tiny HTML tags translator to convert these markup text into colorful console text sequences. [GetCPT](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#GetCPT) can return a smart translator which translate colorful text or strip the ansi escaped sequence from result text if `states.Env().IsNoColorMode()` is true.

[Color](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Color) is an interface type to represent a terminal color object, which can be serialized to ansi escaped sequence directly by [Color.Color].

To create a [Color](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Color) object, there are several ways:

- by [NewColor16](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewColor16), or use [Color16](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#Color16) constants directly like [FgBlack](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#FgBlack), [BgGreen](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#BgGreen), ...
- by [NewColor256](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewColor256) to make a 8-bit 256-colors object
- by [NewColor16m](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewColor16m) to make a true-color object
- by [NewControlCode](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewControlCode) or [ControlCode](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#ControlCode) constants
- by [NewFeCode](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewFeCode) or [FeCode](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#FeCode) constants
- by [NewSGR](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewSGR) or use [CSIsgr](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#CSIsgr) constants directly like [SGRdim](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#SGRdim), [SGRstrike](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#SGRstrike), ...
- by [NewStyle](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hedzr/is@v0.8.31/term/color#NewStyle) to make a compounded object
- ...

## Integrated with `cmdr`

### `Closers`

The `Closers()` collects all closable objects and allow shutting down them at once.

```go
package main

import (
    "os"

    "github.com/hedzr/is/basics"
)

type redisHub struct{}

func (s *redisHub) Close() {
    // close the connections to redis servers
    println("redis connections closed")
}

func main() {
    defer basics.Close()

    tmpFile, _ := os.CreateTemp(os.TempDir(), "1*.log")
    basics.RegisterClosers(tmpFile)

    basics.RegisterCloseFn(func() {
        // do some shutdown operations here
        println("close single functor")
    })

    basics.RegisterPeripheral(&redisHub{})
}
```

### `Signals`

`Signals()` could catch OS signals and entering a infinite loop.

For example, a tcp server could be:

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "os"
    "sync"

    "github.com/hedzr/go-socketlib/net"
    "github.com/hedzr/is"
    logz "github.com/hedzr/logg/slog"
)

func main() {
    ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
    defer cancel()

    logger := logz.New("new-dns")
    server := net.NewServer(":7099",
        net.WithServerOnListening(func(ss net.Server, l stdnet.Listener) {
            go runClient(ctx, ss, l)
        }),
        net.WithServerLogger(logger.WithSkip(1)),
    )
    defer server.Close()

    // make a catcher so that it can catch ths signals,
    catcher := is.Signals().Catch()
    catcher.
        // WithVerboseFn(func(msg string, args ...any) {
        //     logz.WithSkip(2).Verbose(fmt.Sprintf("[verbose] %s", fmt.Sprintf(msg, args...)))
        // }).
        WithOnSignalCaught(func(ctx context.Context, sig os.Signal, wg *sync.WaitGroup) {
            println()
            logz.Debug("signal caught", "sig", sig)
            if err := server.Shutdown(); err != nil {
                logz.Error("server shutdown error", "err", err)
            }
            cancel()
        }).
        WaitFor(ctx, func(ctx context.Context, closer func()) {
            logz.Debug("entering looper's loop...")

            server.WithOnShutdown(func(err error, ss net.Server) { closer() })
            err := server.ListenAndServe(ctx, nil)
            if err != nil {
                logz.Fatal("server serve failed", "err", err)
            } else {
                closer()
            }
        })
}

func runClient(ctx context.Context, ss net.Server, l stdnet.Listener) {
    c := net.NewClient()

    if err := c.Dial("tcp", ":7099"); err != nil {
        logz.Fatal("connecting to server failed", "err", err, "server-endpoint", ":7099")
    }
    logz.Info("[client] connected", "server.addr", c.RemoteAddr())
    c.RunDemo(ctx)
}
```

## Contributions

Kindly welcome, please issue me first for keeping this repo smaller.

## License

under Apache 2.0
